basic ethereum (#931)
dfinity/examples: rust/basic_ethereum/README.md

features of the Internet Computer.

For a deeper understanding of the ICP < > ETH integration, see
the [Ethereum integration overview](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/multi-chain/ethereum/overview).

## Prerequisites

* [x] Install the [IC SDK](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/install/index.mdx).

## Step 1: Building and deploying sample code

### Clone the smart contract

To clone and build the smart contract in **Rust**:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/dfinity/examples
cd examples/rust/basic_ethereum
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

**If you are using MacOS, you'll need to install Homebrew and run `brew install llvm` to be able to compile the example.
**

### Acquire cycles to deploy

Deploying to the Internet Computer
requires [cycles](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/cycles) (the equivalent of "gas" in
other blockchains). You can get free cycles from
the [cycles faucet](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/cycles/cycles-faucet.md).

### Deploy the smart contract to the Internet Computer

```bash

> dfx deploy --network ic basic_ethereum --argument '(opt record {ethereum_network = opt variant {Sepolia}; ecdsa_key_name = opt variant {TestKey1}})'

Reviewer: Note that `--ic` is how the cool kids write `--network ic` nowadays.

Author: Thanks for heads-up, done.

      network.
    - `ecdsa_key_name = opt variant {TestKey1}`: the canister uses a test key for signing via threshold ECDSA that is
      available on the ICP mainnet.
      See [signing messages](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/smart-contracts/encryption/signing-messages#signing-messages-1)
      for more details.

If successful, you should see an output that looks like this:

```bash
Deploying: basic_ethereum
Building canisters...
...
Deployed canisters.
URLs:
Candid:
    basic_ethereum: https://a4gq6-oaaaa-aaaab-qaa4q-cai.raw.icp0.io/?id=<YOUR-CANISTER-ID>
```

Your canister is live and ready to use! You can interact with it using either the command line or using the Candid UI,
which is the link you see in the output above.

In the output above, to see the Candid Web UI for your ethereum canister, you would use the
URL `https://a4gq6-oaaaa-aaaab-qaa4q-cai.raw.icp0.io/?id=<YOUR-CANISTER-ID>`. You should see the methods specified in the Candid file `basic_ethereum.did`.

## Step 2: Generating an Ethereum address

An Ethereum address can be derived from an ECDSA public key. To derive a user's specific address, identified on the IC

> by a principal, the canister uses its own threshold ECDSA public key to derive deterministically a new public key for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by a principal, the canister uses its own threshold ECDSA public key to derive a new public key deterministically for
```

each requested principal. To retrieve your Ethereum address, you can call the `ethereum_address` method on the
previously deployed canister:

```shell

> dfx canister --network ic call basic_ethereum ethereum_address

Reviewer: An alternative would be to call the function in the Candid Web UI, right?

Author: From the Candid Web UI you would need to set explicitly the principal, since calling it for the anonymous principal is disallowed.

```

> This will return an Ethereum address such as `("0x378a452B20d1f06008C06c581b1656BdC5313c0C")` that is unique to your

Reviewer: How about "tied" instead of "unique"?
Strictly speaking, there is no guarantee that the address is unique, right?

Author: > Strictly speaking, there is no guarantee that the address is unique, right?

If you find one collision, then you should go play the lottery :-). But you are right that since the space of IC principals (up-to 29 bytes) is larger than the space of Ethereum addresses (20 bytes), the mapping from IC principal to Ethereum address cannot be injective. I followed your suggestion.

principal. Your address will be different. You can view such address on any Ethereum block explorer such as Etherscan.

If you want to send some ETH to someone else, you can also use the above method to enquiry about their Ethereum address

> given their IC principal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
given their IC principal:
```

```shell
dfx canister --network ic call basic_ethereum ethereum_address '(opt principal "hkroy-sm7vs-yyjs7-ekppe-qqnwx-hm4zf-n7ybs-titsi-k6e3k-ucuiu-uqe")'
```

This will return a different Ethereum address as the one above, such
as `("0x8d68f7B3cdb40A2E77071077658b01A9EA4B040F")`.

## Step 3: Receiving ETH

Now that you have your Ethereum address, let us send some (Sepolia) ETH to it:

> 1. Get some Sepolia ETH if you don't have any. You can for example use such
>    a [faucet](https://www.alchemy.com/faucets/ethereum-sepolia).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Get some Sepolia ETH if you don't have any. You can for example use [this faucet](https://www.alchemy.com/faucets/ethereum-sepolia).
```

2. Send some Sepolia ETH to the address you obtained in the previous step. You can use any Ethereum wallet (e.g.,
   Metamask) to do so.

Once the transaction has at least one confirmation, which can take a few seconds,
you'll be able to see it in your Ethereum address's balance, which should be visible in an Ethereum block explorer,

> e.g. https://sepolia.etherscan.io/address/0x378a452b20d1f06008c06c581b1656bdc5313c0c.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
e.g., https://sepolia.etherscan.io/address/0x378a452b20d1f06008c06c581b1656bdc5313c0c.
```

## Step 4: Sending ETH

You can send ETH using the `send_eth` endpoint on your canister, specifying an Ethereum destination address and an

> amount in the smallest unit (Wei). For example, to send 1 Wei to `0xdd2851Cdd40aE6536831558DD46db62fAc7A844d`:

Reviewer: 1 Wei?!?
The amount below doesn't match this (really) small value.

Author: I had forgotten this comment sorry. I changed the amount to match the 1 Wei [here](https://github.com/dfinity/examples/pull/931/commits/ff57fd030ffd422a0c858380c04c3ee573b4538a).

```shell
dfx canister --ic call basic_ethereum send_eth '("0xdd2851Cdd40aE6536831558DD46db62fAc7A844d", 40000000000000000)'
```

> The `send_eth` endpoint can send ETH by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `send_eth` endpoint sends ETH by executing the following steps:
```

   the [`eth_feeHistory`](https://github.com/internet-computer-protocol/evm-rpc-canister/blob/3cce151d4c1338d83e6741afa354ccf11dff41e8/candid/evm_rpc.did#L254)
   method in the [EVM-RPC canister](https://github.com/internet-computer-protocol/evm-rpc-canister/tree/main).
3. Building an Ethereum transaction ([EIP-1559](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1559)) to send the specified amount
   to the given receiver's address.
4. Signing the Ethereum transaction using
   the [sign_with_ecdsa API](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/smart-contracts/encryption/signing-messages).
5. Sending the signed transaction to the Ethereum network using
   the [`eth_sendRawTransaction`](https://github.com/internet-computer-protocol/evm-rpc-canister/blob/3cce151d4c1338d83e6741afa354ccf11dff41e8/candid/evm_rpc.did#L261)
   method in the [EVM-RPC canister](https://github.com/internet-computer-protocol/evm-rpc-canister/tree/main).

The `send_eth` endpoint returns the hash of the transaction sent to the Ethereum network, which can for example be used
to track the transaction on an Ethereum blockchain explorer.

## Conclusion

In this tutorial, you were able to:

> * Deploy a canister smart contract on the ICP blockchain that can receive & send ETH.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Deploy a canister smart contract on the ICP blockchain that can receive and send ETH.
```

* Use a cycles faucet to deploy the canister to ICP blockchain on the mainnet for free.
* Connect the canister to the Ethereum Sepolia testnet.
* Send the canister some Sepolia ETH.
* Use the canister to send ETH to another Ethereum address.

> Additional examples regarding the ICP < > ETH integration of can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional examples regarding the ICP < > ETH integration can be
```

found [here](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/multi-chain/examples#ethereum--evm-examples).

## Security considerations and best practices

If you base your application on this example, we recommend you familiarize yourself with and adhere to
the [security best practices](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/security/) for developing on the
Internet Computer. This example may not implement all the best practices.

For example, the following aspects are particularly relevant for this app:

* [Certify query responses if they are relevant for security](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/security/general-security-best-practices#certify-query-responses-if-they-are-relevant-for-security),

>   since the app e.g. offers a method to read balances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  since the app offers a method to read balances, for example.
```
